Now that you have a better understanding of the AWS
console and the services within it,
we're going to take a look at AWS's Identity and Access Management
Service, or IAM. We'll review a few key concepts of IAM that you'll need
to know in order to interact with AWS services,
and we'll look at a few tools that will be useful
for configuring IAM in the future.
So let's look at some terminology and concepts that are
important to understand when you're working with Identity
and Access Management in AWS.
The first, and probably most familiar concept, is that of an IAM
user. Users are individuals like you and I.
We might log into AWS with an email and password combination,
a multi‑factor authentication token, or use AWS with the AWS
command line interface and access keys.
Users can have sets of permissions in IAM that allow them to
do certain things within the AWS ecosystem.
Similarly,
there also IAM groups. Groups are a collection of users
that each share permission policies.
This can be especially useful when you like to be able to easily
standardize and manage permissions among a group of people.
Rather than write specific access policies for each user account,
you can then manage the group policies that only require you
to add and remove users from the group.
IAM also has the concept of a role.
Roles are similar to users because they also carry with them a set
of permissions that determine what a role can do.
They're a little bit different, however,
because they don't have access keys or login credentials,
and they can be assumed by AWS users or AWS services like AWS Lambda.
So how do all these concepts interact?
Well, just for a quick visual, let's imagine that we have a bunch of users,
and each of these users might be put into an IAM group
that offers them certain permissions.
This way, we can give only the resources needed by a developer to a developer,
and only the resources needed by a data scientist to your data scientists.
Now each of these groups would then have policies that are
appropriate for those different kinds of users,
and each of these group policies is determined by a JSON IAM policy
that we'll look at in more depth a little bit later.
This policy is usually managed by an administrator or a
security officer in larger organizations.
So, how do roles come in here?
Well, roles are a more flexible concept that allow permissions to be granted
to AWS users, federated account users, coming through other things that manage
identity, or AWS account resources themselves.
This means that AWS roles can be a little bit more
flexible in what they apply to.
But, let's take a look at a common example of when we might use a role.
Let's say we have two different sets of virtual machines. With the first set,
we might want to be able to send emails through AWS's Simple Email Service, SES,
and we might also want to be able to load in templates for
those emails from something like S3.
With the second set of virtual machines, in this case the orange one, we might
want to interact with the Systems Manager Parameter Store,
which we'll be doing later on to get some access keys from that
Parameter Store to use against the APIs that Twitter offers.
Now for both of these different services, we'll have different use cases that we
need. From the orange section, we'll need to load those API keys into our Lambda
environment, but we don't need to change them.
Whereas with the green service, we might need to load things in from S3,
an entirely separate service, and also then write
emails with SES and send those out.
Now,
both of these different permissions would be described in
separate permissions policies that then might be managed by
something like a security officer.
Now, we're going to need to set these policies up and then
attribute them to a role, which will then be attached to
these virtual machine groups here.
Now,
we're not going to do this in this course because instead of virtual
machines, we'll just be assigning roles to particular Lambda
functions that will take these actions for us.
So, what do these policies look like?
Let's take a look at a sample policy here.
Now, each IAM policy is a JSON object that contains a few key elements.
The first portion of the policy, as you can see here, is used to tell AWS
what version of the IAM policy syntax that you're using.
The main reason for this is it might allow you to include policy
variables within more complicated policies.
And depending on when AWS changes the versions of the IAM policy syntax,
you might want to use a future version or an earlier
version that you've already created.
The next section here is the meat and potatoes of the policy.
The effect portion specifies if the action that we'll talk about should
be allowed or denied to whatever follows. Now, the action portion then
tells us what particular actions can be taken,
and the resource portion specifies what particular resources these actions
can be taken on. Now, this policy is extensively broad.
The action with a star means any action, and the
resource with a star means any resource.
So while this is a great policy to use as an example because of its simplicity,
it isn't a great policy to use in practice.
So let's take a look at some of the best practices of dealing
with IAM and security in your new AWS account.
Now that you've created an AWS account and you
understand some of the IAM terminology,
let's make sure you're set up with a few best practices.
First, always use strong and unique passwords on all your AWS accounts.
If you can, also set up two factor authentication with a hardware
token or a mobile app like Google Authenticator.
When you use your AWS account,
try to limit access to permissions and services wherever possible.
The principle of least privilege is a guideline that tells you only to give
permissions out on an as needed basis and try and restrict them as much as
possible, one that isn't something that's going to break your applications or
cause difficulties for your developers.
Next, be cautious in using your root account,
which is the default account that you get when you create an AWS account.
You risk exposing the root account credentials as you keep using it, so it's
best practice to create an administrator account with high‑level permissions
that isn't the root account itself.
So if you always need to go back to and fix something,
that root account will be there at that highest level of permissions.
Keep these best practices in mind as you set up your AWS account, and take
a few minutes to apply these updates to your account.
So now let's take a look at what we'll be doing with IAM to get set up with everything we'll need.